BİM222 - INTERNET PROGRAMMING - HOMEWORK 1
Create a responsive website for university (using bootstrap). Your site should have at least 7
pages. The names of the web pages are listed below:

Page 1: home.html
Page 2: university.html
Page 3: academics.html
Page 4: students.html
Page 5: campuslife.html
Page 6: login.html
Page 7: documents.html

General features to be provided on every page:
• Each page should have an expressive title.
• Each page should contain some meaningful metadata.
• Each page should be well-formed and validated (you can use the Markup Validation
Service - https://validator.w3.org/).
• Each page should have a navigational bar on the left containing other page links, in
which the font size of the name of the active page seen larger than the others.
• Form elements should have proper input types and input attributes. Try to be userfriendly and informative to your users (for example link the form elements with their
labels, use placeholders, etc.).
• Each page should have a footer at the bottom containing copyright and authorship
information.
• Each page should be similar to the interface in Figure 1. Contents are left to you.
• "A semantic Web allows data to be shared and reused across applications, enterprises,
and communities". Hence, use/include semantic tags whenever possible.
• Responsive Web Design: Each web page must be rendered well on different screen
sizes (https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/layout/breakpoints/).
•

HOME
•

There must be at least one image of the university. When you mouse over the
image, the image should enlarge.

•

On this page, announcements of the university should be displayed in the form of
a list.

•

Clicking on the tabs on the left should open the relevant page.

•

The currently selected tab should be shown as selected. (The selected tab should
be in larger font size.)

UNIVERSITY
•

This page should contain information about the university. Examples of this
information are "About Us", "Numbers of Students and Staff", "Administrative Units"
etc. can be given. The preparation of the contents herein is entirely left to you.

•

There should be a show less/more button. When this button is pressed, the relevant
text should be displayed as shorter or longer.

•

There should be a picture of the university on this page, and the picture should be
transparent when hovering over the picture.

ACADEMICS
•

On this page, information about faculties, institutes and vocational higher schools
should be given in 3 separate tables.

STUDENTS
•
•

•

This page may contain some useful information for students. Page content is up to
you.
This tab should have "Student Login" and "Documents" subheadings. When the
Students link is hovered, these two subheadings will appear and the user will select
one of them.
When you click on the sub-tabs on "Students" tab, the relevant page should open.

STUDENT LOGIN
•
•

In this section, login with username and password. Keep the user password secret.
When the user presses the login button, it redirects to the "Home" page.
It should be checked whether the user name and password fields are empty. If
these fields are empty, they should give a warning and should not redirect to the
"Home" page.

DOCUMENTS
•

This page should contain some documents that students can use. The relevant
documents must be downloaded when the links are clicked.

CAMPUS LIFE
•

There should be a video of the university on this page. When the user clicks the
video, it should start playing (Note: Do not download or put any video file into your
homework folder. Import them directly by giving the exact link of the web page should be an external link, not local -, or you may use YouTube videos. However,
the video file must be rendered on the same page (campuslife.html), not in a new
window).

Figure 1: Simple interface design template

Some Important Notes
Note 1: This is NOT a group assignment. It should be done individually.
Note 2: Copying/Giving any portion of your homework solution from/to other student(s) will
mean getting 0 as a score.
Note 3: No homework will be accepted by e-mail or after the deadlines!! Please do NOT send
any work by e-mail..."
Note 4: Projects that do not work completely will receive "0" points.
Note 5: Use HTML and CSS codes only.
Note 6: Use Sublime, Notepad, Notepad++, etc., to write the codes of your pages. DO NOT
use another program to create these files. These files should be edited as pure HTML, not
including extra control codes inserted by other programs, such as Word.
Note 7: The screenshots above are given as examples of the corresponding web pages. To
get higher grades, you must enrich your site's content as much as possible.
Note 8: You must submit all your work (HTML, CSS codes, photos, i.e., what are necessary
to see/run your work) through ESTUOYS within the submission deadlines.

